This file describes a way to correctly visualize the night sky if Earth has rings.

The only universally available planetarium software I know of that enables the user to add Earth rings is the program named Celestia. Celestia is a free, open source application.  Its originator is Chris Laurel, who has been aided over the years by a large number of other astronomy-interested graphics programmers.  Among all planetarium software, Celestia's special thing is being able to handle points of view and frames of reference very well.  Here is where you can download it:  
Install it from https://sourceforge.net/projects/celestia/

You should replace its reasonably good ephemerides with the exactly right ones from JPL.  To do that:
Go to ftp://ssd.jpl.nasa.gov/pub/eph/planets/SunOS/de406/ and download the file unxp1800.406
Rename that file jpleph.dat and drop it into the celestia/data folder that was made when you installed Celestia in Steps 2-4.  (If you want to understand what the jpleph.dat file is doing, read http://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Celestia/JPL_Ephemerides)
Now you have correct ephemerides for dates 1800 to 2100 from JPL.

Next, here follow instructions for adding two rings to Celestia's visualization.  
One ring is in the plane of the equator like most planetary rings, and is thus an embodiment of the suggestion of O'Keefe (1980).
The other one is a ring in the plane of the lunar orbit which is near the ecliptic and is thus one interpretation of the suggestion of Jones (1856).  
Download the zipfile tworings.zip that is in this directory.  Unzip it and drop it into celestia/extras.  Also download shipsites.ssc and drop it in at the top level of the tworings directory.  You ask why I didn't do this already.  Well, eventually I will.
When you start up Celestia, the earth will have a ring around its equator, and a ring orbiting the earth-moon barycenter.  
Remarks:  
The density structures of the two rings are arbitrary inventions.
The density structures are been set by the *.png files that are called in the *.ssc file at the uppermost level in that directory.  
The *.png files required are in the medres folder.   You can read up on this at the Celestia wiki.  
The most convenient and general way to use these *.png files would be to set the ring radius in the *.ssc file as occupying the whole range zero to 512000 and then use .png files with width 512 pixels or a multiple.  In this case each pixel will represent 1000 km of radial distance (or a half or quarter of 1000 km depending on the multiple of 512 that you used).  Now you see how Celestia handles these files.  The height of the file does not matter – Celestia will look at only one row anyway. 
But it is not done that way here. The reason I have not set up the *.ssc this way is that some graphics cards do not handle that correctly.  So I have constrained the rings to a smaller range so that you will not be discouraged by having it all appear wrong when you fire it up.   
If the ring is solid, then it may be an issue of your graphics card, or of the graphics Celestia is using.  Try Ctrl-V a few times to invoke more-sophisticated graphics.  Otherwise, note that NVidia cards work particularly well with Celestia and not all others work equally well.

A word on the second ring in the system you see.  One ring is equatorial, the usual planetary ring orientation.  That is not our focus here.  The focus of this site is to explore the sky position of the other ring.  In 1856, George Jones proposed an Earth ring "near" the plane of the ecliptic to explain variations he saw in the zodiacal light, in his nightly observations as a member of the Perry expedition to Japan in the 1850s.  He said this explanation provided a better account for the zodiacal light than the circumsolar dust rings suggested by Cassini and Laplace.  His proposal was out of step with the times, however, and was not at all accepted.  Not only was he disputing with Cassini and Lapalace, but also, Saturn's rings known at the time were all in the equatorial plane.  Even more discouraging, James Clerk Maxwell explained in 1859 why the equatorial orientation would be favored.  And for the next hundred and fifty years, all additional planetary rings discovered were also found in the respective equatorial planes of Saturn, Jupiter, Uranus and Neptune...   Nobody paid attention to Jones's idea.  And by the way, this long history is probably the reason Celestia didn't build in the ability to pick ring orientation.  But in 2009, ***** discovered Saturn's Phoebe ring, which is in the plane of Saturn's moon Phoebe and is not in Saturn's equatorial plane.  Saturn's Phoebe ring opens up new thoughts.  For.... If Earth had a ring in the plane of our Moon, then as it happens that would be a ring very near the ecliptic, because our Moon rotates Earth in an orbit about five degrees from the ecliptic plane.  And that means that George Jones's idea now has a solar system analogue and shouldn't sound insane any more.   
Now we can say that perhaps he was suggesting we have a "Phoebe" ring in the plane of our Moon.  that would be near the ecliptic.  it all fits!  so you see the purpose of this visualization, which is to see whether Jones's idea really truly works out or not.  He described a lot of odd things.  If you put a Phoebe ring around Earth, do you see those same things on those nights in those places?   There are a lot of ways for an orbit to be "near" the ecliptic - does this "Phoebe ring" orientation account for Jones's observations?
The program now is to visualize the night sky at the times and locations of his observations, and compare what you see, to what he wrote.
A FEW REMARKS ABOUT CELESTIA
remark 1:  Celestia is now set up with a ring in the plane of the lunar orbit.  You can look at the SSC file to see how I did that - added an imaginary planet with the same orbit as Earth, tilting it so that its axis is perpendicular to the plane of the Moon's orbit, and then gave the imaginary planet its own equatorial ring. 
remark 2:  Celesta works optimally with NVidia cards.  I don't know whether any others are equally compatible.  
remark 3:  The Celestia wiki describes how to navigate around this view.  The wiki assumes you are using a 101-key keyboard.  There are workarounds if you have a laptop but I haven't worked them out.  I just bought a 101-key keyboard and use the wiki instructions.
remark 4:  A worked example.  The night of April 2, 1853
Observation number 1 is in the hours after sunset on April 2, 1853.  The ship was at 10.53N, 110.15E.
Open up Celestia 
<enter> Earth <enter> g
That sets the focus on Earth and gets it into the field of view.
Set time to 3 April 1853.  Choose UTC.
Go to the navigation menu.  Choose Go To Object, and set the coordinates 10.53  110.15.
Assure that you have this location centered on Earth.  turn on horizontal coordinates and assure you have 270 vertical at the top (use 4 and 6 on the keypad for this, where Numlock is off).
<ctrl>-G
y
that will land your point of view on the dead center of the Earth as you had depicted it, and you will be facing west because you had 270 at the top, and you will be traveling with earth because you pressed "y"
press the down and up arrows to move the horizon.  

remark 5:  While starting from scratch is a very clear and transparent way to situate yourself, I am also providing a complicated alternative.  The file shipsites.ssc makes the positions of all of Jones's observations available to you for selection.  In terms of Celestia, this file provides their latitudes and longitudes, categorizes them all as observatories, and gives them size 300.  To associate positions or dates with the numbering system used to name these,consult the table in Jones's introduction that shows the numbering of his observations.
If that was too easy, here is more:  Among these are the positions of Cassini's observations.  Note that these dates do not fall within the period 1800 to 2100 that is covered by the JPL ephemerides you are using.  To obtain those ephemerides, redo the step you took at installation.  Namely, Go to ftp://ssd.jpl.nasa.gov/pub/eph/planets/SunOS/de406/ BUT this time download the file unxp1500.406 and as before (see above), rename it and drop it into celestia/data/ and now you can use JPL ephemerides for Cassini's dates.  Warning, Celestia sometimes caches these files and gets mixed up when you change them.  
(Actually I have provided both JPL files in this repository under the zip file.)

remark 6:  imitating Jones's chart style
On page xli, Jones sets out the conventions used on his charts.  Here are suggestions for making the Celestia view comparable.
a. Reduce the visible stars by pressing [ or increase the number with ].  Jones' charts do not go to dimmer stars.
b. In the Render menu, choose Star Style to be scaled disks.
c. In the "Render" menu, under View Options, be sure the planets are visible and that both planets and stars are named. 
d. Also under Render | View Options, turn on the ecliptic line.  This is the vertical axis down the middle of each Jones chart.
turn on the ecliptic line.  
e. The ecliptic is a vertical line down teh center of each of Jones's charts.  To make it vertical in the Celestia view, use the 4 and 6 keys on the numeric keypad (with Numlock off). 

remark 7:  about navigation for your Earth observer
To see the lat/lon of your observer, go to Navigation | Goto Object.  If latitude and longitude are blank, then re-set focus on Earth:  <enter> Earth <enter>.  Then once again Navigation | Goto Object
The period symbol increases the field of view while comma reduces it.  Note that this can appear confusingly similar to actually moving the observer.
The cursor up and down arrows amount to somersaulting in place, forward or backward.
The cursor left and right arrows amount to cartwheeling in place, left or right. 
Alternatively, with Numlock off, the numbers 4 and 6 also amount to cartwheeling left or right.
With Numlock Off, the number 7 goes down (toward center of Earth) while 1 goes "up" and note that when you can't figure out where you are, 1 is a good approach.
With Numlock Off, the numbers 2 and 8 scroll up and down through the observer's field of view.  This can appear as though the observer were moving but not so.
Shift followed by any one of the four cursor arrows moves the observer on Earth.

L means speed up time; K mean slow it; spacebar means stop it.  J means reverse it.
Ctrl-V cycles through levels of graphic sophistication.   
With Numlock off, 3 is an Undo key but I don't know what its limitations are.
With Numlock on, the keypad has an entirely different meaning naturally.  Check the Wiki.

Now speed up the passage of time by pressing L; slow it by pressing K; reverse it with J; reverse again with J.
The sun will appear, and will set, and the sky will darken and the stars appear.  Aligned with the eclitptic is some kind of a band of something.  That is the sky position of teh ring in the plane of the lunar orbit.  (To your left is another arc that does not move at all.  that is the position of an equatorial ring.  It is nowhere near the ecliptic line and can't account for all the action there that Jones saw.)  The ring that moves, is the not-equatorial ring, the "Phoebe" ring, Jones's suggestion.

remark 8:  Celestia does not include the optical effect of ring dust on light from teh sun behind it, such as forward scattering, although it does include forward scattering through the atmosphere.  So you can see the sky position of the ring but you cannot see here that its brightness would fade for positions less aligned directly at the sun itself.  If the ZL is illuminated by forward scattering, only the lower part is illuminated, as that is nearest the sun that has set and is still below the horizon.  If it is illuminated by reflection, that would be entirely different.  Unfortunately we can't visualize these two situations in Celestia.
remark 9:  You can capture this visualization to save time for later considerations, either by suing Celestia's ability to store videos of itself, or by a simple screencast.

AND IN CLOSING
There you have it.  You are now able to run through George Jones's observations one by one, and see what the sky position of a ring would have been, so to decide whether you agree with him that a ring accounts for the anomalies.


OTHER CELESTIA STUNTS

WHERE DOES THE SHADOW OF JONES'S RING FALL?
You may notice the second ring is not as well treated as the first!  The equatorial ring has shadows, while the Jones ring does not.  If you want to see where the shadows of the Jones ring falls, you need to improvise, because Celestia will not draw shadows for both set of rings.  
What follows is first a set of remarks about how to represent the shadows of the ring system on Earth, and then a set of remarks about how to set up preparation of a video of the sky as Jones saw it. These are independent.  If I had more time they would be separate files linked to this one.  Ah well.

If you want to see the shadows of both rings, you can go to the point of view of the sun, look at the ringed Earth, and magnify your view.  Where the image of the ring blocks the sun’s view of earth, there is a shadow on earth. Here is a cookbook approach to doing that.  
Start Celestia
press <enter>
type sun 
press <enter> 
type g 
press <enter>
type earth
 press <enter> 
press g

Wait till stuff stops happening.  Check phase angle (shown in top left text).  If it is not 0.0, do all those steps again (from the first “press <enter>”).  
Once you have iterated that enough times to ensure that the phase angle is zero, then use the "End" key – which is “1” on the numeric keypad of the 101-key USB keyboard provided Numlock is Off – if it is on, then the number 1 just takes you to Mercury. Press "End" again and again until "distance" (shown in top left text) increases, becoming thousands of km, then millions of km, then being measured in au instead of km, until the distance is something between 0.9 and 1.0 au, and not more than 1.0 au.  if you go too far, press "Home" (which is 7 on the keypad provided Numlock is off) to reverse.  
Once positioned, press shift-colon (to lock the phase angle).  
Press comma, again and again (about a hundred times or so), to "magnify" the field of view.  Note that magnification is not the same thing as "getting closer to earth."  You will see the image of earth grow bigger and bigger, till it fills your screen.  to back up, press period.  Once you have the magnification the way you like it, press shift-colon again.  Note:  this scheme only works if you maintain the phase angle at zero all the time!    
And there you have it.  Now you have a view of the earth where the position of the ring images is the same as the shadow they would cause - because you are positioned AT the sun itself, though your view of earth is magnified.  
You can speed up the passage of time by pressing L a few times; you can slow it by pressing K a few times; to reverse time, press J; to reverse it back again, press J again.  To look at some particular date, click the Time menu, and Set Time.  Celestia documentation can be found on the Web and it will show how to do other things – for example, work out what view the satellites and spacecraft would have of the rings.  Thank you Chris Laurel and colleagues!


